# OpenPOS Discovery Service
The Discovery Service is used for resolving the URL of an OpenPOS server instance in the case where OpenPOS is deployed under an OpenPOS Management Server.  The OpenPOS Management Server handles starting and stopping of individual OpenPOS server instances for OpenPOS client devices.  This type of managed deployment of OpenPOS is only necessary in cases where a retailer is running OpenPOS on top of a legacy point of sale system that is not thread-safe or was not otherwise designed to function as a process that can serve multiple clients simultaneously.  Additionally, if the reailer would like to centrally manage their OpenPOS servers on a single server (virtual or not), the OpenPOS Management Server will allow for that capability. For example, if there is a store server at each retail location, the retailer could run an OpenPOS Management Server on the store server which will in turn manage OpenPOS server processes for each client device.

## Using the Discovery Service
The developer should find that use of the Discovery Service is transparently handled by OpenPOS and it should not require any direct calls. The Discovery Service is always used by the Session Service in order to obtain the server URLs for connecting a client to its OpenPOS server. In the case of OpenPOS Management Server based deployments, the OpenPOS Session Service will detect if an OpenPOS Management Server is present and will make calls to the Discovery Service automatically in order to negotiate the URL needed to connect a client device to its corresponding OpenPOS server instance.  In the case where an OpenPOS Management Server is not being used, the Discovery Service is still used by the Session Service for caching of the OpenPOS server websocket connection URL and OpenPOS base server URL.